“Alcohol may be man’s worst enemy, but the bible says love your enemy.” – Frank Sinatra
“Everybody’s got to believe in something. I believe I’ll have another beer.” – W.C. Fields
“I drink to make other people more interesting.” – Ernest Hemingway
“Scientists announced that they have located the gene for alcoholism. Scientists say they found it at a party, talking way too loudly.” – Conan O’Brien 
“Either give me more wine or leave me alone.” – Rumi
“I have taken more out of alcohol than alcohol has taken out of me.” – Winston Churchill
“Anyway, no drug, not even alcohol, causes the fundamental ills of society. If we’re looking for the source of our troubles, we shouldn’t test people for drugs, we should test them for stupidity, ignorance, greed and love of power.” – P. J. O’Rourke
“The hard part about being a bartender is figuring out who is drunk and who is just stupid.” – Richard Braunstein
“Always do sober what you said you’d do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut.” – Ernest Hemmingway
 “First you take a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes you.” – Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
 “One reason I don’t drink is that I want to know when I am having a good time.” – Lady Astor
 “War and drink are the two things man is never too poor to buy.” – William Faulkner
 “The problem with the world is that everyone is a few drinks behind.” – Humphrey Bogart
 “There is no bad whiskey. There are only some whiskeys that aren’t as good as others.” – Raymond Chandler
 “A man is a fool is he drinks before he reaches the age of 50, and a fool if he doesn’t afterward.” – Frank Lloyd Wright
 “24 hours in a day, 24 beers in a case. Coincidence?” – Stephen Wright
 “If you ever reach total enlightenment while drinking beer, I bet it makes beer shoot out your nose.” – Jack Handy
 “I drink when I have occasion … and sometimes when I have no occasion.” – Miguel De Cervantes
 “Drink because you are happy, but never because you are miserable.” – G.K. Chesterton
 “One martini is alright, two is too many, three is not enough.” – James Thurber
 “One can drink too much, but one never drinks enough.” – Edward Burke
 “I envy people who drink – at least they know what to blame everything on.” – Oscar Levant
 “Stay busy, get plenty of exercise, and don’t drink too much. Then again, don’t drink too little.” – Herman Smith- Johannsen
 “Here’s to alcohol, the rose colored glasses of life.” – F. Scott Fitzgerald
 “In wine there is wisdom, in beer there is Freedom, in water there is bacteria.” – Benjamin Franklin
 “Drinking makes such fools of people, and people are such fools to begin with, that it’s compounding a felony.” – Robert Benchley
 “Drinking makes uninteresting people matter less and late at night, matter not at all.” – Lillian Hellman
 “The worst thing about some men is that when they are not drunk they are sober.” – William Butler Yeats
 “What’s drinking? A mere pause from thinking!” – George Gordon
 “I feel bad for people who don’t drink. When they wake up in the morning, that’s as good as they’re going to feel all day.” – Frank Sinatra
 “There comes a time in every woman’s life when the only thing that helps is a glass of champagne.” – Bette Davis
 “When I read about the evils of drinking, I gave up reading.” – Henny Youngman
 “Champagne for my real friends and real pain for my sham friends.” – Tom Waits
 “The first glass is for myself, the second for my friends, the third for good humor, and the fourth for my enemies.” – William Temple
 “I work until beer o’clock.” – Stephen King
 “If God had intended us to drink beer, he would have given us stomachs.” – David Daye
 “I try to convince myself that it’s the alcohol talking. But alcohol can’t talk. It just sits there. It can’t even get itself out of the bottle.” – David Levithan
 “A bottle of wine contains more philosophy than all the books in the world.” – Louis Pasteur
 “I went to the worst of bars hoping to get killed but all I could do was to get drunk again.” – Charles Bukowski
 “What contemptible scoundrel has stolen the cork to my lunch?” – W. Clement Stone
 “A bartender is just a pharmacist with a limited inventory.” – Albert Einstein
 “Not everyone who drinks is a poet. Some of us drink because we’re not poets.” – Dudley Moore
 “Sometimes too much to drink is barely enough.” – Mark Twain
 “I like to have a martini. Two at the very most. After three I’m under the table. After four I’m under my host.” – Dorothy Parker
 “Drink today, and drown all sorrow; You shall perhaps not do it tomorrow; Best, while you have it, use your breath; There is no drinking after death.” – Ben Jonson
 “I hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but they’ve always worked for me.” – Hunter S. Thompson
 “Better belly burst than good liquor be lost.” – Jonathan Swift
 “I like beer. On occasion, I will even drink beer to celebrate a major event such as the fall of Communism or the fact that the refrigerator is still working.” – Dave Berry
 “Oh, you hate your job? Why didn’t you say so? You know there’s a support group for that. It’s called EVERYBODY, and they meet at the bar.” – Drew Carey
 “There are two kinds of people I don’t trust: people who don’t drink and people who collect stickers.” – Chelsea Handler
“A drunk man’s words are a sober man’s thoughts.” – Steve Fergosi
“Beer is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy.” – Benjamin Franklin
“Drink washes off the daub and discovers the man.” – Thomas Fuller
“If you drink, don’t drive. Don’t even putt.” – Dean Martin
“Almost anything can be preserved in alcohol, except health, happiness, and money.” – Mary Wilson Little
“He that drinks fast, pays slow.” – Benjamin Franklin
“Drinking makes you happy with your body the way it is.” – Philip Rosenthal
“An intelligent man is sometimes forced to be drunk to spend time with his fools.” – Ernest Hemingway
“Wine is the most healthful and most hygienic of beverages.” – Louis Pasteur
“Never chase anything but drinks and dreams.” – Unknown
